Building robots, from design and analysis to manufacturing and assembly, is my passion. For the 
past three years, I have been working across soft robotics, industrial robotics, additive manufacturing, 
composite materials, and more.

As a Research and Development Engineer at Cybernetics Hi‑Tech Solutions (Pvt.) Ltd., I am focused on the 
development and analysis of remotely operated vehicles for industrial applications and rescue operations. 
Our team has delivered two ROVs that are now in field service. Currently, I am working on a Man-Portable ROV 
project along with my teammates. My key responsibilities include Design for Manufacturing and Assembly (DfMA), 
stress analysis, structural topology optimization, additive manufacturing methods for prototyping like Fused 
Deposition Modeling (FDM), molding of soft materials like silicone, subtractive manufacturing like CNC milling 
and Electro Discharge Machining (EDM). Recently, we have started working on composite materials. For the first 
time in Bangladesh’s history, we successfully implemented the resin infusion method to manufacture structural 
components using carbon fiber, achieving an industrial-grade solution within our own composite fabrication
lab. This milestone not only demonstrates our manufacturing capabilities and knowledge but also
creates a precedent for the country’s manufacturing infrastructure.

During my undergraduate studies in Mechanical Engineering at Bangladesh University of Engineering
and Technology (BUET), I built a strong foundation in electromechanical systems, computer-aided
design, PCB design, and finite element analysis, which naturally pushed me to explore the
intersection of robotics and manufacturing. As a third-year student in the mechanical department, I
collaborated with my team to develop a bio-inspired soft robotic fish and a mechanical solution for
a variable capacity cooling tower. For my undergraduate thesis, I designed and fabricated a soft
robotic actuator to replace the conventional rigid actuator in the medical robots used for Minimally
Invasive Surgery (MIS). The soft actuator has three degrees of freedom to reach any area at the
time of surgery, minimizing the number of incisions and reducing patient’s recovery time.

I aspire to pursue graduate research at the intersection of robotics and manufacturing methodologies, 
with the long-term aim of contributing to humanitarian causes.
